# TeslaMate: MQTT to ABRP

## Use as Docker container
### Requirements
For this to work, you need a working instance of TeslaMate with MQTT enabled. See the [official TeslaMate doc](https://docs.teslamate.org/docs/installation/docker) as a reference on how this might look like.

### Getting a ABRP APIKEY and USER TOKEN
*TODO: Pending response from Bo*

### Adding the service to docker-compose.yml
Once the APIKEY and USER TOKEN are secured, you can add the teslamate-abrp service to your TeslaMate docker-compose.yml  

- The first value MQTT_SERVER corresponds to the name of your MQTT service name ("mosquitto" in the doc).  
- The second and third values (API_KEY and USER_TOKEN) correspond to the values provided by ABRP.
- The fourth value corresponds to your car number (1 if you only have a single car).
- The last value corresponds to your car model; you need to find your car model on https://api.iternio.com/1/tlm/get_carmodels_list. Use the corresponding key as a value for CAR_MODEL (e.g. "s100d" for a 2012-2018 S100D).
- Additionally, MQTT_PASSWORD and/or MQTT_USERNAME can be set to use authentication on the MQTT server.
  
```
  ABRP:
    container_name: TeslaMate_ABRP
    image: fetzu/teslamate-abrp:latest
    environment:
      - MQTT_SERVER=mosquitto
      - API_KEY=a2c
      - USER_TOKEN=d4e
      - CAR_NUMBER=1
      - CAR_MODEL=s100d
```
  
Then from the command line, navigate to the folder where your docker-compose.yml is located and run:
```
docker-compose pull ABRP
docker-compose up ABRP -d
```
  
If all goes well, your car should be shown as online in ABRP after a minute. The logs should  show "Connected with result code 0".

## Use as python script
The script can also be run directly on a machine with Python 3.x. Please note that the machine needs to have access to your MQTT server on port 1883. **NOTE: If you wish to use the python script, you will have to hard-code the APIKEY constant on line 41. The official API key is still pending.**

### Installing requirements
To install the requirements, run
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running

To run, you can either use the CLI. Please note that USER_TOKEN, CAR_NUMBER, CAR_MODEL and MQTT_SERVER are required arguments.  
  
If you are using a MQTT server with username or authentication, pass the -l (to use MQTT_USERNAME only) or -a (for authentication with MQTT_USERNAME and MQTT_PASSWORD) options.

  
```
  Usage: 
    teslamate_mqtt2abrp.py [-hlap] (USER_TOKEN) (CAR_NUMBER) (CAR_MODEL) (MQTT_SERVER) [MQTT_USERNAME] [MQTT_PASSWORD]
  
  Arguments:
    USER_TOKEN          User token generated by ABRP
    CAR_NUMBER          Car number from TeslaMate (usually 1)
    CAR_MODEL           Car model (from https://api.iternio.com/1/tlm/get_carmodels_list, e.g. "s100d" for a 2012-2018 S100D)
    MQTT_SERVER         MQTT server address or hostname (e.g. "192.168.1.1")
    MQTT_USERNAME       MQTT username (e.g. "teslamate") - use with -l or -a.
    MQTT_PASSWORD       MQTT password (e.g. "etamalset") - use with -a.

  Options:
    -h                  Show this screen.
    -l                  Use username to connect to MQTT server.
    -a                  Use authentification (user and password) to connect to MQTT server.
```
**Note: All arguments can also be passed as corresponding OS environment variables.** Arguments passed through the CLI will always supersede OS environment variables.

